## RQ-023. Graphical editor
- a. Comes in two modes: editor mode (to create/edit model), simulation mode (to simulate current model)
  - a.i. During editor mode, no simulation is possible
  - a.ii. During simulation mode, no editing is possible
    - a.ii.1. **Still to find out for Dirk: need editing of current marking during simulation**
- b. Provide visualization of CPN model structure as stated in “Visualization Requirements for CPN IDE”
- c. Nodes (places and transitions)
  - c.i. Provide magnetic grid to support aligned placement of nodes
  - c.ii. If there are two nodes with the same name property, show a warning marker and add a warning to the problems panel
  - c.iii. If there is a node without a name property, add a warning to the problems panel
- d. Edges
  - d.i. Only connect transitions to places and places to transitions
  - d.ii. Provide bend points to lay out edges in the model
  - d.iii. Bend points snap to magnetic grid
- e. Markings
  - e.i. In editor mode, visualize the initial marking as the “current marking” at each place that has a token.
    - e.i.1. Initial marking is an ML expression that can be complex, the current marking is obtained by evaluating this ML expression. Therefore, the current marking at a place has to be shown in an extra label in addition to the initial marking specified at the place. (See requirements for visualization).
  - e.ii. “current marking” does not have to be editable in editor mode/simulation mode 
- f. Annotations
  - f.i. Annotations have to be evaluated for being valid ML in the context of the definitions provide in the model, if non-valid, the annotation has to be marked with a warning/error marker, the warning/error shall be listed in a problem view (list)
  - f.ii. Provide suggestion/auto-completion (based on name) when editing colorset-annotation of places
  - f.iii. Allow jumping through annotations of selected place/transition using TAB key
    - f.iii.1. Place: name > colorset > marking > name
    - f.iii.2. Transition: name > guard > time annotation > priority > name